# Configuring

The config is located in `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`.

I recommend you copy the `examples/hyprland.conf`, but you can also edit the autogenerated config.

By removing the line `autogenerated=1` you'll remove the yellow warning.

The Hyprland config is very similiar in syntax to the Hypr config. The only difference is that all the variables that didn't have a section are now in the section `general`.

Refer to the example config in `/examples/hyprland.conf` to see, well... and example.

Start a section with `name {` and end in `}` ***in separate lines!***

# Line style
every config line is a command followed by a value.
```
COMMAND=VALUE
```

The command can be a variable, or a special keyword (described further in this page)

You are **allowed to** input trailing spaces at the beginning and end.

e.g.:
```
COMMAND = VALUE
```
is valid.

# Variable types
Variable types are:

`int` - integer

`float` - floating point number

`col` - color (e.g. 0x22334455 - alpha 0x22, red 0x33, green 0x44, blue 0x55)

`MOD` - a string modmask (e.g. SUPER or SUPERSHIFT or SUPERSHIFTALTCTLRCAPSMOD2MOD3MOD5 or empty for none)

Mod list:
```
SHIFT CAPS CTRL/CONTROL ALT MOD2 MOD3 SUPER/WIN/LOGO/MOD4 MOD5
```

# Sections

## General
`max_fps=int` - Maximum refreshes per second. (of config, animations, hyprctl)

`sensitivity=float` - mouse sensitivity

`apply_sens_to_raw=int` - (0/1) if on, will also apply the sensitivity to raw mouse output (e.g. sensitivity in games)

`main_mod=MOD` - the mod used to move/resize floating windows (hold main_mod and mouse1/mouse2)

`border_size=int` - border thickness

`gaps_in=int` - gaps between windows

`gaps_out=int` - gaps between window-monitor edge

`col.active_border=col` - self-explanatory

`col.inactive_border=col` - self-explanatory

`damage_tracking=str` - Makes the compositor redraw only the needed bits of the display. Saves on resources by not redrawing when not needed. Available modes: `none, monitor, full`. WARNING: Damage tracking is still experimental, expect bugs, especially with `full`!

Recommended: `monitor`.

## Decoration

`rounding=int` - rounded corners radius (in pixels)

`active_opacity=float` - self-explanatory, 0 - 1

`inactive_opacity=float` - self-explanatory, 0 - 1

`blur=int` - (0/1) enable dual kawase window background blur

`blur_size=int` - Minimum 1, blur size (intensity)

`blur_passes=int` - Minimim 2, more passes = more resource intensive.
    
Your blur "amount" is blur_size * blur_passes, but high blur_size (over around 5-ish) will produce artifacts.
    
If you want heavy blur, you need to up the blur_passes.

The more passes, the more you can up the blur_size without noticing artifacts.

## Animations

`enabled=int` - (0/1) enable animations

`windows=int` - (0/1) enable window animations

`borders=int` - (0/1) enable border animations

`fadein=int` - (0/1) enable fadein/out

`speed=float` - Speed of the animations, in 100s of ms (e.g. `7` -> 700ms)

`curve=str` - name of the curve to use, `default` is the fallback and always provided. (see the [curves section](https://github.com/vaxerski/Hyprland/wiki/Configuring-Hyprland#curves) for how to define a custom curve)

`xxx_speed=float` - replace xxx with a component name (windows/borders/fadein/etc) and it will apply a speed to that component. 0 means use the global value. If not set, will use the global value. (global is `speed=float`)

`xxx_curve=str` - replace xxx with a component name (windows/borders/fadein/etc) to choose a curve for that animation.

## Input

`kb_layout=str` `kb_variant=str` `kb_model=str` `kb_options=str` `kb_rules=str` - adequate keyboard settings

`follow_mouse=int` - (0/1) enable mouse following (focus on enter new window) - Quirk: will always focus on mouse enter if you're entering a floating window from a tiled one, or vice versa.

`repeat_rate=int` - in ms, the repeat rate for held keys

`repeat_delay=int` - in ms, the repeat delay (grace period) before the spam

### Touchpad
_Subcategory input:touchpad:_

`disable_while_typing=int` - (0/1) disable touchpad while typing

## More 
There are more config options described in other pages, which are layout- or circumstance-specific

# Special keywords

Some keywords arent variables but define special behaviour.

## Monitors
```
monitor=name,res,offset,scale
```

for example:
```
monitor=DP-1,1920x1080@144,0x0,1
```
will tell Hyprland to make the monitor on DP-1 a 1920x1080 display, at 144Hz, 0x0 off from the beginning and a scale of 1.

To disable a monitor, use
```
monitor=name,disable
```

If your workflow requires custom reserved area, you can add it with
```
monitor=name,addreserved,TOP,BOTTOM,LEFT,RIGHT
```
Where `TOP` `BOTTOM` `LEFT` `RIGHT` are integers in pixels of the reserved area to add. This does stack on top of the calculated one, (e.g. bars) but you may only use one of these rules per monitor in the config.

```
workspace=name,number
```
for example:
```
workspace=DP-1,1
```
will tell Hyprland to make the default workspace on DP-1 a number 1.

## Binds
```
bind=MOD,key,dispatcher,params
```
for example,
```
bind=SUPERSHIFT,Q,exec,firefox
```
will bind opening firefox to SUPER+SHIFT+Q

Please note that `SHIFT` modifies the key names, so for example
```
bind=SHIFT,1,anything,
```
will not work, as 1 is overwritten by !

Common overwrites:
```
1 -> exclam
2 -> at
3 -> numbersign
4 -> dollar
5 -> percent
6 -> asciicircum
7 -> ampersand
8 -> asterisk
9 -> parenleft
0 -> parenright
- -> underscore
= -> plus
```

See the [xkbcommon-keysyms.h header](https://github.com/xkbcommon/libxkbcommon/blob/master/include/xkbcommon/xkbcommon-keysyms.h) for all the keysyms. The name you should use is the one after XKB_KEY_, written in all lowercase.

You can also unbind with `unbind`, e.g.:
```
unbind=SUPER,O
```

May be useful for dynamic keybindings with `hyprctl`.

General dispatcher list:
```
exec - executes a shell command - params: command
killactive - kills the focused window - params: none
workspace - changes the workspace - params: workspace (see below)
movetoworkspace - moves the focused window to workspace X - params: workspace (see below)
togglefloating - toggles the focused window floating - params: none
fullscreen - toggles the focused window's fullscreen state - params: none
pseudo - toggles the focused window to be pseudotiled - params: none
movefocus - moves the focus in a specified direction - params: l/r/u/d (left right up down)
movewindow - moves the active window in a specified direction - params: l/r/u/d (left right up down)
splitratio - changes the split ratio - params: relative split change, +n/-n, e.g. +0.1 or -0.02, clamps to 0.1 - 1.9
```

### Workspaces
workspace args are unified. You have three choices:

ID: e.g. `1`, `2`, or `3`

Relative ID: e.g. `+1`, `-3` or `+100`

Name: e.g. `name:Web`, `name:Anime` or `name:Better anime`

## Executing
you can execute a shell script on startup of the WM or on each time it's reloaded

`exec-once=command` will execute only on launch

`exec=command` will execute on each reload

## Curves
Defining your own Bezier curve can be done with the `bezier` keyword:

```
bezier=NAME,X0,Y0,X1,Y1
```
where `NAME` is the name, and the rest are two points for the Cubic Bezier. A good website to design your bezier can be found [here, on cssportal.com](https://www.cssportal.com/css-cubic-bezier-generator/).

Example curve:
```
bezier=overshot,0.05,0.9,0.1,1.1
```

## Window Rules
You can set window rules for various actions. These are applied on window open!

```
windowrule=RULE,WINDOW
```

`RULE` is a rule (and a param if applicable) and `WINDOW` is a RegEx to match against

Rules:
```
float - floats a window
tile - tiles a window
move <x> <y> - moves a floating window (x,y -> int or %, e.g. 20% or 100)
size <x> <y> - resizes a floating window (x,y -> int or %, e.g. 20% or 100)
pseudo - pseudotiles a window
monitor <id> - sets the monitor on which a window should open
workspace <workspace> - sets the workspace on which a window should open (for workspace syntax, see binds->workspaces)
opacity <a> - additional opacity multiplier (a -> float, e.g. 0.25)
```

_Notice_: Opacity is always a PRODUCT of all opacities. E.g. active_opacity to 0.5 and windowrule opacity to 0.5 will result in a total opacity 0.25. You are allowed to set opacities over 1, but any opacity product over 1 will cause graphical glitches. E.g. 0.5 * 2 = 1, and it will be fine, 0.5 * 4 will cause graphical glitches.

examples:
```
windowrule=float,kitty

windowrule=monitor 0,Firefox
```