# Quick start

After you've installed Hyprland, you can either launch it from a TTY with
`Hyprland` or from a login manager. Although login managers aren't officially
supported, I recommend `SDDM`, as it's been working flawlessly with wayland
compositors.

## Immediate

**OMG MY SCREEN IS BROKEN, FLASHY TEARY!** -> see the bottom of this page

Once you log in, you'll be greeted with a yellow warning that will give you some
basic keybind info of your pregenerated config.

I recommend you use the config provided in `examples/hyprland.conf` though.

Paste it into `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`

You can, of course, start from the pregenerated config if you wish to. If you
want the warning to go away, remove the `autogenerated=1` line.

## Monitors

Use `hyprctl monitors` to list available outputs.

Then, you can configure your outputs with

```
hyprctl keyword monitor NAME,RES@HZ,OFFSET,SCALE
```

`NAME` is the name of the display, e.g. `DP-1`

`RES@HZ` is the resolution and refresh rate, e.g. `1920x1080@144`

`OFFSET` is the position of the monitor, e.g. `0x0`

`SCALE` is the display scale, e.g. `1`

example command:

```
hyprctl keyword monitor DP-3,1920x1080@240,1920x0,1
```

**Warning!** These changes are **not** permanent! If you want to make those
changes persist, configure your outputs in the config!

# Proper configuring

Head onto the
[Master Configuring Wiki Page](https://github.com/vaxerski/Hyprland/wiki/Configuring-Hyprland)
to learn all about configuring Hyprland to your likings.

# Apps / X11 replacements

See the
[Sway wiki page](https://github.com/swaywm/sway/wiki/Useful-add-ons-for-sway)
just about that.

# Screen broken on launch

This usually happens due to your monitor not being very happy about the default
settings.

You can get your monitor's name(s) from the TTY.

Exit hyprland, and then:

- `cat /tmp/hypr/$(ls -t /tmp/hypr | head -n 1)/hyprland.log | grep monitor`
  will give you a bunch of logs about the connected monitors. Names like `DP-x`
  or `HDMI-x` etc are your monitor names.
- edit (with your favorite text editor) `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf`
- replace the `monitor=` line with `monitor=NAME,RES@Hz,OFFSET,SCALE`, for
  example `monitor=DP-1,1920x1080@60,0x0,1` (See the above section titled
  Monitors for more info about the values) You can also add multiple of those
  for multi-mon setups.

After this, upon launching Hyprland again, provided you set an appropriate mode
for your monitors, everything should be fine.
